Date:        Mon, 07 Jan 2013 10:01:11 +1100
From:        Chris Huggins  <[hidden] at gmail dot com>
To:          [hidden] at jackaudio dot org
Follow-Up:   Paul Davis Re: [Jack-Devel] Install wipes out Graphics Drivers, user suggestions for JACK team. (1357514204.22078_0.ltw:2,a)

Subject:     [Jack-Devel] Install wipes out Graphics Drivers, user suggestions for JACK team.

Hello All,

I have a more consistent JACK since following instructions as follows
for my PC -

'Mark the package ubuntustudio-recording for installation. Now use the
quick filter to search for lowlatency and check the latest version of
linux-image-lowlatency for installation.'

On the PC I had to reinstall the additional drivers for the Graphics
Card after re starting.

I have attempted the same process on an older Toshiba Tecra laptop,
but I have a very black screen on re start and I think I will have to
rebuild the operating system, and not use this little laptop for music
purposes as planned.

The point is that JACK is only ever as good as the environment that it
sits in. For JACK to be acceptable it really needs to be more user
friendly. For example, I had to contact this team to find out that
JACK doesn't work well unless Ubuntu Studio is installed as well. Most
casual users would just ditch the product as another half finished
open source app rather than persevering. Then of course I have the
Graphics Driver problem which would upset any casual user.

Pulse Audio is a good example of a GUI that is far easier to
understand than JACK, as well as generally connecting without all the
drama of JACK. Most users would be very happy to be connected and
advised by JACK of the effectiveness of the connection rather than
just being locked out without any reason that can be easily
understood. The ridiculous Error Messages in JACK need a serious
rethink by the team. If JACK cannot establish a clean connection, the
messages should say why in comprehensible terms and there needs to be
some suggestions about how to fix the problems. Say 'Input Device
RP150 not compatible because ......, etc, rather than 'Unable to start
JACK server" or the other nonsense about Xruns.

The interaction of JACK, ALSA and PULSE needs to be sorted out and
integrated. It is just not acceptable for JACK to attempt to be a
stand alone product with it's own language and it's own problems when
JACK operates within the limits of the other programs. ALSA could also
benefit from a better GUI which identifies components in the same way
as users identify them.

Three screens in QJACKCtl - Patchbay, Connections, and much of the
Settings screen, all replicate the same purpose, and also run
alongside auto detection of connections and devices by JACK and ALSA.
Seriously, this is just a sloppy, untidy piece of work. My apologies
to whoever programmed it. The identification of devices within the GUI
and the inability of JACK to provide meaningful suggestions about
connection problems are parts of the problem. It is hugely frustrating
that Pulse and the basic 'Sound Settings' in the operating system both
function in a very superior way in terms of making connections.

I hope this feedback is of some use to the team. I am a big fan and
supporter of Ubuntu and Open Source software and wish you every
success.

Chris.

1357513278.20689_0.ltw:2,a <CABMfs7G_XMeCY8d0bCUYX4+rix9t1UuU0c+1VxQUPF-7vEPYHQ at mail dot gmail dot com>
________________________________________________________________________________

