Date:        Wed, 13 Nov 2013 20:58:50 +0100
From:        Robin Gareus  <[hidden] at gareus dot org>
To:          [hidden] at iem dot at, Debian Multimedia Maintainers <[hidden] at lists dot alioth dot debian dot org>, ardour <[hidden] at lists dot ardour dot org>, JACK Mailing List <[hidden] at lists dot jackaudio dot org>

Subject:     [Jack-Devel] Linux Audio Conference 2014 - Call for Participation

[Sorry for cross-posting, please distribute]

We are happy to announce the next issue of the Linux Audio Conference
(LAC), May 1-4, 2014 @ ZKM | Institute for Music and Acoustics, in
Karlsruhe, Germnany.

  http://lac.linuxaudio.org/2014/

The Linux Audio Conference is an international conference that brings
together musicians, sound artists, software developers and researchers,
working with Linux as an open, stable, professional platform for audio
and media research and music production. LAC includes paper sessions,
workshops, and a diverse program of electronic music.

*Call for Papers, Workshops, Music and Installations*

We invite submissions of papers addressing all areas of audio processing
and media creation based on Linux. Papers can focus on technical,
artistic and scientific issues and should target developers or users. In
our call for music, we are looking for works that have been produced or
composed entirely/mostly using Linux.

The online submission of papers, workshops, music and installations is
now open at http://lac.linuxaudio.org/2014/participation

The Deadline for all submissions is January 27th, 2014 (23:59 HAST).

You are invited to register for participation on our conference website.
There you will find up-to-date instructions, as well as important
information about dates, travel, lodging, and so on.

This year's conference is hosted by the ZKM | Institute for Music und
Acoustics (IMA). The IMA is a forum for international discourse and
exchange and combines artistic work with research and development in the
context of electroacoustic music. By holding concerts, symposia and
festivals on a regular basis it brings together composers, musicians,
musicologists, music software developers and listeners interested in
contemporary music. Artists in Residence and software developers work on
their productions in studios at the institute. With digital sound
synthesis, algorithmic composition, live-electronics up to radio plays,
interactive sound installations and audiovisual productions their
creations cover a broad range of what digital technology can inspire the
musical fantasy to.

The ZKM is proud to be the place of the LAC for the fifth time after
having initiated the conference in 2003.

  http://www.zkm.de/musik

We look forward to seeing you in Karlsruhe in May!

Sincerely,
The LAC 2014 Organizing Team

1384372742.24600_0.ltw:2,a <5283D9FA.2000101 at gareus dot org>
________________________________________________________________________________

